Data and Audience
Our data is called “Freedom in the World” and was originally accessed through the open source data project “tidytuesday”. The dataset itself was created by Arthur Cheib, but the data he collected is originally from the United Nations and Freedom House. The dataset is essentially a collection of countries with data spanning from 1995-2020 that indicates whether a country is “free” or not, including variables like the amount of civil liberties a country has, the amount of political rights a country has, and whether a country is developed or not.

The target audience for our dataset is most likely people who have some interest in the fields of political science and anthropology. As such, we will probably target a fairly educated population who wants a good synopsis/visualization of how different factors in different regions of the world impact its sociopolitical climate.

We want to learn to what degree certain variables are associated with freedom levels and whether some variables have more of an impact
We want to track freedom levels in all countries over time to see whether freedom levels across the world have increased, decreased, or simply changed in some meaningful way.
We want to see whether certain regions have different levels of freedom and analyze whether a region a country in plays a significant factor in determining its freedom level

The way we will be reading in our data is through a static.csv file. This file will contain everything needed to do this project. 

We would reformat the data set, since the rows of the data set have 2 different categories, so we need to reformat it to analyze how the elements of each column are different between each element in the one category and under the condition of the other category.

Tidyverse, ggplot, dplyr, stringr

With statistical analysis we hope to answer many questions but here are some we have thought of currently. While it may be hard to use machine learning as we don’t know how to do that yet, we hope to use statistical analysis to answer questions. The first question is we wish to make a visualization to answer a question to see whether political rights or civil liberties are more associated with freedom levels. We also hope to see based on the grouping of countries from different regions to see the trends among the freedom levels of the regions. Additionally, we hope to see the freedom levels over time for each country and also see if there is more freedom levels associated if a country is developed or not developed. We are still thinking of more and more questions that we will keep updating on the Readme file of the github, where we will put the questions we want to answer through statistical analysis :)
What major challenges do you anticipate?
One challenge might be the fact when we are comparing 2 categorical data as we would need to do a good job of representing the data meaningfully. For example, we might not be able to use scatterplots when comparing 2 categorical variables. 
